Updated: 24 Feb 2022 8:20 pm
John Carpenter isn’t a sequel kinda guy.
In fact, in his three decades of directing, Carpenter only helmed one sequel, 1996’s Escape From L.A. And even then, it took Carpenter and actor Kurt Russell 15 years to continue the adventures of ex-soldier and overall misanthrope Lieutenant S.D. Bob "Snake" Plissken, who was first introduced in 1981’s Escape From New York. 

Both films sealed Plissken’s cinematic legacy as one of film’s grumpiest antiheroes, the biker bad boy equivalent to Clint Eastwood’s Spaghetti Western Man With No Name. With this week’s release of Escape From L.A. from Paramount Home Entertainment on 4KHD for the first time ever, John Carpenter got on a Zoom with IGN to reflect on why the film remains one of his favorites to this day.
For some Carpenter context, Escape From New York and the Plissken character were born of the writer/director’s reaction to Nixon-era political shenanigans and the popularity of Charles Bronson vigilante hits like Death Wish (1974) and its sequels. In fact, Bronson was the studio choice for Snake Plissken. But Carpenter’s commitment to Russell came from their great working relationship, and subsequent friendship, from making the Elvis (1979) biopic. As it turns out, Carpenter’s instincts were right as Russell’s snarling and surprising turn as Snake became a box office success and a cult movie icon.
The friends bandied back and forth for years with potential sequel ideas to no avail. Very aware of Russell’s under the radar skills as a writer, Carpenter admits he nudged his friend into co-writing the script with him to get it made. 
“I used his passion to do the movie to get him to write more,” Carpenter confesses. “I manipulated him.” 
Carpenter remembers the two hunkering down to put their ideas to paper together. “We’d sit in a room and we would talk out a scene and act out some of it,” he explains. “And then I’d say, ‘You write that.' And he does.”
The final screenplay for Escape From L.A., which also included the work of producer Debra Hill, was basically a repository for all the fun things Carpenter and Russell wanted to do in a movie together, and with Plissken. Narrative wise, the U.S. is still a mess. And in the wake of a devastating 1999 earthquake in Southern California, Los Angeles is now an island prison for the worst of society. When Cuervo Jones (Georges Corraface), a Communist revolutionary on the island, threatens to wipe out the ruling class and capitalism with a global EMP, President Adam (Cliff Robertson) offers the yet-again-arrested Plissken a full pardon to handle the problem.
Surf's up!
With plenty of violence promised and the ticking clock of Plissken being infected with the potentially fatal Plutoxin 7 virus also in play, Carpenter, Hill and Russell hit just about every action genre in Plisskin’s big adventure. The director even managed to slip in some political subtext about right wing conservative autocracies and capitalism run amuck. Because of that and the fun of the experience, Carpenters says the film remains a favorite on his resume.
“I just like the under vibe—I just made that up, under vibe— of this thing. And the deporting people from L.A. kind of taps into what we're going through now, or had been going through in this country,” Carpenter says, alluding to the Trump administration’s immigrant policies. “But it all comes back to the surfing,” he laughs.
Carpenter is of course alluding to Escape From L.A.’s infamous scene with Plisskin and the hippie Pipeline (Peter Fonda) hanging 10 on a tsunami wave through Wilshire Canyon. 
“I just loved doing the surfing,” Carpenter says now of the sequence. “I wanted to pull off the surfing scene, where I was asking myself how the hell are we going to do this? But the Walt Disney people solved it.” He’s referring to Buena Vista Visual Effects, the now defunct visual effects house on the film, along with CG Supervisor David Jones who executed that sequence. 
“And then, it was working with Peter Fonda,” Carpenter adds of what else that scene blessed him with. “He became a close friend.”
Despite a lot of returning collaborators who worked on Escape From L.A. with him, the movie afforded Carpenter the chance to bring some new faces into his circle that he had yet to make a movie with. “I'd always wanted to work with Pam Grier,” he enthuses. 
Grier was cast to play the trans character Hershe Las Palmas, whom Plissken had formerly known in his criminal past as Jack "Carjack" Malone. “She's amazing on the screen,” Carpenter continues. “And Cliff Robertson was fun to work with. I mean, it was just so many [faces], like Stacy Keach. And their professionalism, all of them were professionals. Big time. I'm always impressed by that.”
John Carpenter on the set.
Escape From L.A. also marks the first time Carpenter collaborated on a score with Shirley Walker, a fellow giant in genre film and television responsible for the music in Batman: The Animated Series and many others. “She was a wonderful lady and it was different working with her,” he says fondly. “She brought a lot to the table because I could not deal with the musical [work] load. I couldn't do it. I had to direct. And because it was all night [shoots], I remember not seeing the daylight for months. Weird, weird, weird.”
Notoriously uninterested in revisiting his work with rewatches, 4KHD or not, Carpenter admits he hasn’t put any thought into crafting any new stories for Snake Plissken, nor has Russell bugged him about it. But when prompted on the spot with the possibility of a new entry entitled, Escape from D.C., he smiles and off the cuff counters with, “Escape from Earth, dude! Let’s get out of here.”
Escape From L.A. is available now on 4KHD.
