Updated: 28 Feb 2022 8:07 am
Today is Pokemon's 26th birthday, and The Pokemon Company celebrated by sharing a Pokemon Presents that revealed, among other things, that the open world Pokemon Scarlet and Violet will be headed to the Nintendo Switch in 2022.

Pokemon Day 2022 also unveiled new updates for Pokemon Legends: Arceus, Pokemon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl, and many more. To help ensure you don't miss a thing, we've gathered all the biggest announcements below.
Generation 9 will officially begin later this year when Pokemon Scarlet and Pokemon Violet arrive on Nintendo Switch in 2022. This open world game "where various towns with no borders blend seamlessly into the wilderness" will be an "evolutionary" step for the Pokemon franchise. 
We were also introduced to the new starter Pokemon, and they are wonderful. When Trainers begin their journey, they will choose between the Grass Cat Sprigatito, the Fire Croc Fuecoco, or the Water Duckling Quaxly.
Pokemon Legends: Arceus' Daybreak update (Ver. 1.1.0) will arrive later today and will have Trainers "investigating mysterious mass outbreaks of Pokemon that are popping up all over the HIsui region." They will also be able to battle "powerful opponents - like Legendary Pokemon and Wardens - adding yet more options to the Pokemon battle experience."
Players will also be able to receive 30 Ultra Balls, Gigaton Balls, and Jet Balls by entering the password ARCEUSADVENTURE in the Mystery Gifts menu before March 31, 2022. 
Furthermore, there will be an online animated series set in Pokemon Legends: Arceus' Hisui region that will launch later in 2022 with an original story.
By using an item called Oak's Letter received as a Mystery Gift, Pokemon Brilliant Diamond and Shining Pearl players will be able to catch the Mythical Pokemon Shaymin by talking to Professor Oak on Route 224. 
Pokemon that call Pokemon Sun and Moon's Alola region home will begin appearing in Pokemon GO on March 1. Until then, Alolan Form Exeggutor will be available to catch.
In celebration of Pokemon Day and it being 2.5 years since Pokemon Masters EX was released, players can earn 3,000 gems and scout 10 sync pairs each day for 10 days for free. Trainers May, Skyla, and Raihan will also become available in special outfits.
In celebration of Pokemon Day 2022, Pokemon Cafe Remix players will be able to enjoy a log-in bonus of a celebratory outfit for Bulbasaur, a "four-day period of an increased chance of Shiny Piplup appearing," and that chance to try out the game's new Delivery feature 11 times for free.
The Mythical Pokemon Hoopa has joined Pokemon UNITE and all players can try them out for free in celebration of Pokemon Day 2022. Additionally, those who log in between now and March 14 will receive a Pokemon Day hat and t-shirt in-game. Lastly, full-fury battles were shown and Duraludon was revealed as the next Pokemon to join the roster.
Have a tip for us? Want to discuss a possible story? Please send an email to newstips@ign.com.
Adam Bankhurst is a news writer for IGN. You can follow him on Twitter @AdamBankhurst and on Twitch.
